# Parallel-Search
This Assignment consist of Sequential code, Parallel Search code and Parallel Search of a Set in C Language.

Question:

Parallel Search:

This problem implements a parallel search of an extremely large (several thousand elements) integer array of size N. The program finds all occurrences of a certain integer, called the Target, and writes all the array indices where the target was found to an output file. In addition, the program reads both the Target value and all the array elements from an input file.

Additional requirements:

Write a proper tester code which creates input file with random number (several 1000s) of random integers. Ensure the sequential C code is correct with any kind of input provided by the tester code (test suite).
Write a Parallel Program using OpenMP for the above problem and do the following:
a) Check the correctness of the parallel program using the test suite developed for the Sequential Code. Then do the following.
b) Record the Execution Time of the parallel program using wall clock time. Tabulate the Execution time for various size of N, in the increasing order.
c) Tabulate the Execution time for various number of threads used, in the increasing order. Define: Speedup= Execution Time/Number of Threads.
d)Tabulate the Speedup achieved for various number of threads used, in the increasing order.
e) Extend the program to search for a Target Set of integers. The program will consider each member of the Target Set as a Target. Program reads the Target Set and the array of size Nfrom input file. Program does the same task as described in the sequential version for each of the members in the Target Set.
f) Plot the graph of Execution Time Vs the number of elements in the Target set for the above case. Also plot Speedup Vs the number of elements in the Target set for the above case
g) Would any of the findings or observations above [a) to f)] change if float is used instead of int. Your comments, with justifications.
h) Write down your inferences, learnings from the exercise as part of this assignment.

Solution:

Inputs of different sizes were generated by program (testercode.c) code which randomly selects a number between -9 to 9. This program takes as command line input the size of the output array and outputs a file names (inputs”size”), where “size” is a number of entries in the input file.

Sequential Search: 

This program (Seqsearch.c) for search of target in file was coded and checked for correctness. It is correct for various test cases.

Parallel Search:

This program (Parsearch.c) for search of target in file was coded and compiled. After checking the Parallel program using the test suite developed from the sequential code, The execution time for various size (10^4, 10^5, 10^6, 10^7) of input file with different number of threads were recorded and tabulated in increasing order.
Then, Tabulated the speedup for various number of threads. (that is, Speedup = Execution Time / Number of Threads)

Parallel Search for set:

Extended the parallel program (Parsearchset.c) for searching target set of integers. Tabulated and plotted the execution time and number of elements in the Target set. Then, Tabulated and plotted the speedup and number of elements in the Target set.

Inferences: 

1. By Observing graphs of parallel program for searching target set, we can find that more threads for larger input size is leading to increase in Speedup.
2. The Maximum number of threads must be used to complete the given problem efficiently.
3. For parallel program, the plot between Speedup and target set size is increasing for bigger size input files. 
4. When number of threads increases, speedup decreases for parallel program for searching target value.
